Growing up, I did the majority of my gaming on PC. Sure, I had a SNES, N64, and
original Xbox  [^1], but I spent most of my time on the computer growing up,
playing Starcraft [^2], Diablo [^3], Final Fantasy VII [^4], Carmen SanDiego
[^5], Oni [^6], StepMania [^7], and so many others. Why no consoles? Well...

First off, consoles are expensive! I already had a computer in the house for
reasons other than gaming, so why would I buy a console? Furthermore, console
games were expensive too...theoretically, it's much easier to "legally acquire"
PC games than Xbox ones [^8]. So from a personal standpoint, it's easy to see
why I fell in love with PC gaming; even though I didn't have a l33t gaming
computer, I was still able to play all of the above-mentioned games and more!

Furthermore, PC gaming made a very positive impact not just on gamers, but on
society in general. A quote from one of our readings, said by John Romero,
sums this up real nicely...
"I think the fact that computers were primarily used to play games really
helped to get people to accept that computers were good and helpful devices
instead of the negative portrayals of them in the '60s and '70s in movies."
Johnny Boy is totally right. Gaming made the computer much less scary and much
more approachable. These lean [^9], mean, computing machines can be used to
just entertain yourself...it's not so bad [^10]!

Looking at some of the first PC games, like Lemonade Stand [^11], you may think
that there's not much of a point to paying attention to them at all. I talked
about this a lot more in my last blog post, so see that for a longer
discussion, but it's important to hear again...even if you hate old games, you
should at least appreciate them for being the building blocks on which the
games of today are created. And even so, they still can be fun to play. I had a
good time with Prince of Persia just now, instead of doing my real
schoolwork...[^12]

[^1]: all given to me on the good grades of my uncle/other people who didn't
want those "old" game systems laying around

[^2]: Protoss FTW, and don't look at me like that, Zerg's ugly dood

[^3]: my love for Diablo II will never fade

[^4]: so hard for a kiddo, but I got so excite when Advent Children came
out...esp that "good to see you...Cloud" line HOLY CRAP

[^5]: where in the world was she???

[^6]: lil 2002 game by Bungie, main character Konoko is BOSS and the
environmental crisis in 2032 is a real thing, git ready

[^7]: I loved FOSS before I even knew what that meant

[^8]: I'm not l33t enough to mod a farking xbox, especially not at like 7 y/o
so be calme everybody

[^9]: Well, maybe lean isn't the right word, looking at the laptop I'm writing
this from...

[^10]: Tell that to DND Greg in episode 15 of Teen Girl Squad! I mean...um,
nothing...[_coughs_](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nHyau4rb7AY)

[^11]: which dmattia still considers the easiet game evar

[^12]: "yeah, mom, my homework is to play games, I know it's hard but I
struggle through it anyway..."
