Video games kill, kids.

Just kidding. I hope you didn't take that seriously even for a millisecond.

When I was little, I played Diablo II [^1], Halo, Fallout I/II, and a few other
games that a 6-7 year-old little person (maybe) should not have been playing.
Regardless, I played them. I also saw my brother play many violent first-person
shooters, anything from DOOM to COD. I also played a lot of more fun and
happy Nintendo games growing up. Neither of them negatively affected me; I was
totally fine with killing Undead, and eventually going down into Hell and
killing Diablo [^2] as a young child. It was totally fine to me. Not once did I
ever conflate the world of Diablo II, or whatever game I was playing, with the
real world.

To me, games have always been an expression of creativity and imagination. Just
like a book or a movie, it's easy to get engrossed in the world and storyline
of a game; sometimes, since you are an active participant in games as opposed
to other forms of entertainment, you get even more engrossed in a good game
than in many movies. At least I know this is true for me [^3].

For some reason, however, parents tend to get upset at games and think that
they negatively impact the character of their child. I know my parents did
that; they weren't a fan of me playing games at all. When I was little, I had
to hide a lot of my game-playing because they were really unsupportive. We got
game consoles from our friends/my uncle as well...the only thing my parents
ever bought was the Wii. To them, one hour of gameplay was A LOT of time. Why
would I ever need to play a game for more than an hour? They simply didn't
understand this, and would be afraid that I would become addicted/get to into
the game and think it's real if I played too much. They also wanted me to spend
time on other things, which is more of a fair argument.

My parent's feelings on games came from an assumption that games can negatively
affect the average person's life, even from moderate usage. They thought that
violent games led to violent tendencies in people [^4]. As people who didn't
ever have access to video games as children, they never got on the bandwagon,
and for them it's just hard to understand. But for those of us who have played
games for a long time, and even for many people who haven't, we see that the
average player doesn't ever have tendencies to cause ill will to others, no
matter how violent the games that they play tend to be. The two simply aren't
related. There's violence everywhere we go; in movies, books, in history. Yet,
you generally don't see people talk about how history causes gun violence. At
least, not in an academic way [^5]. There are many studies out there that
support this; gamers actually tend to have a less violent tendencies than the
average person. Take that as you will. I decide to take it as *there is nothing
wrong with violent video games*.


[^1]: you know this. i've beaten it to death.
[^2]: man, describing this makes me want to play it
[^3]: looking at you Portal 1/2. also the saboteur's universe was fascinating
  to me.
[^4]: actually, my mom might still believe this. idk, haven't brought it up in
  a while.
[^5]: however, i did just have an interesting conversation on racism,
  thanksgiving, and how white-washing of history in order to "protect children"
  from the horrors we've done is actually really damaging.
