You know I went to Strikes and Spares, you saw me and my sad, destroyed phone
there [^1]. I mostly played mini-golf, but I've been there a lot of times
already, so I've had the super special Strikes and Spares experience. In
fact...

Quick storytime! When I was little, I went to Strikes and Spares a lot. Like,
before they painted the place red [^2]. I remember when they added mini-golf
and go-karts, and I absolutely loved it. They have three hour passes where you
can do unlimited anything (i.e. bowling, golfing, go-karting) for those three
hours. We once were the last people in the place and they let us stay for 20
mins after they were supposed to close. Good times, good times indeed.

Especially when I was little, but even now, I appreciate arcades. I didn't have
a lot of experience going to arcades when I was little [^3], but enough to know
that I really enjoyed them. There were a few games in the movie theater, on top
of Putt Putt and Strikes and Spares. I frequented those places when I had the
chance, and I really loved them. I don't see that enjoyment going away anytime
soon.

There is definitely still a charm to arcades. There's something fun about
interacting with a physical system; just like pinball was way back when. Most
PC games don't involve interactions with something physical, everything is
virtualized [^4]. While I usually, these days, don't have a burning desire to
go to an arcade, every now and then I do appreciate having a different
experience. For children, since it is such a physical experience, arcade games
expend energy in a way that video games struggle to do [^5]. This definitely
makes for a vastly different experience, and that makes it valuable.

On top of the physical aspect, arcade games are generally a really different
type than typical PC/console games, since they're short and approachable games,
the idea being that anyone could catch on to them quickly. In that sense,
they're very similar to many mobile games [^6].

However, it's clear that the majority of people don't seem to agree with my
thoughts on arcades, because their popularity has gone down majorly with the
rise of video games on PC/consoles, and especially with the rise of mobile
games. For many people, if they have a convenient "arcade" in their pocket,
there's little point in going to a physical location to play games. I would
argue, just like I did with board games at the beginning of the semester, that
there definitely is a point to different forms of games/gaming. Just like
people still play board games or card games, they can still go to arcades and
play arcade games and still gain something out of it. While you most certainly
can interact with other people playing video games, and I think that there's a
large value in doing so, interactions with people in arcade games are a little
different, and also have their respective value.




[^1]: which has gone through surgery successfully, might i add!
[^2]: it was beige and boring. boo. red made it fun and exciting, obviously.
[^3]: when you're little, you can't drive to one yourself, believe it or not
[^4]: somethin somethin concurrency virtualization persistence
[^5]: rejoice, parents, you can depelete their seemingly infinite energy!
[^6]: they also take your money...the similarities continue!!!
