Many people (me included) consider the first "real" video game to be tennis for
two.  The goal of tennis for two was simple; this one dude named William
Higinbotham just wanted something amusing for the annual visitor's day at
Brookhaven National Lab. Did he intend to kickstart a revolution, to start the
game industry? Nah. When he realized what he'd done, he probably felt like he
created something a little like this... [^1]

![](https://github.com/catvajiac/hoc_blog/blob/master/img/explosion.gif?raw=1)

Sometimes, unintended consequences make for the best stories. This is one of
those times.

At a time when computer science was young, some nerds [^2] decided to make
Spacewar! on a PDP-1. Ah, the good old days, when you'd do 36-hour sprints,
inhaling all the caffiene and chinese food in sight [^3]. This game was
revolutionary; we have many players here, including real-time action, shooting
your friends, and hyperspace. Don't threaten me with a good time.  Spacewar!
was so amazing, people still play it today, I'm sure of it...maybe even in
History of Computing classes, could you imagine? Something else amazing
Spacewar! did was getting you to feel frustration like you never felt
before [^4].

![](https://github.com/catvajiac/hoc_blog/blob/master/img/angry_german_kid.gif?raw=1)

Spacewar! might have been more popular in the 1960's and 1970's if there was a
way for most people to play it. Unfortunately, it was mostly engineering
students that got to give it a go. Believe it or not, there was a time where
in-home game consoles and PCs weren't commonplace [^5].

If people didn't have ways to play games at home, what did they do [^6]? Soon
enough, video games in arcades started to properly surface. After some failures
and a lot of people sitting around, not sure what they were doing exactly [^7],
eventually Pong was born and placed in the back of a bar (Andy Capp's). A few
days later, the machine "broke" because there were too many coins in the coin
box. People were flocking to the bar, but not to drink, to play! Finally, games
were available to the mainstream, and the mainstream loved it.

These original games, of course, lacked many of the features modern games have
today, but in my experience, it doesn't make them less fun to play. While
playing a VR game is new and exciting, or playing through an intricate
storyline like the Portal series can make you feel all the feels, there's an
element of simplicity that I love about older games. First, they're more
approachable to the average person - I could get my best friend (who doesn't
really like games that much) to play Pong, but she wouldn't touch something as
immersive, complex, and full-featured as Skyrim [^8].

Home consoles also became a thing, though quite different from the consoles we
use today. The Mangavox Oddesy had no sound, hardly any graphics, and very
limited features...but all revolutions have to start somewhere, right?  Even
so, something I think is impressive was accomplished; having a light gun
peripheral. I'm a big fan of peripherals myself [^9].

Anyway, as primitive as these games may seem to the average muh-lenny-uhl, they
were the foundation on which everything else could be built upon. Even if you
think they're lame [^10], at least appreciate that, without them, you couldn't
play any games. Even if you only play cute lil apps on your phone. Thanks Pong,
Spacewar!, and real O.G. peeps like tennis for two, for creating a world that I
think is not only immersive and super fun, but also, is a beautiful form of art
[^11]. :)

[^1]: my brain during/after every systems assignment after.

[^2]: nerd (n): the best type of people you'll ever meet.

[^3]: yeah, that's right, I read that part of hackers in the bazaar. on a
related note, TODO: read the rest of hackers in the bazaar.

[^4]: we're all angry german kid deep down...

[^5]: puts my childhood struggles of always having to be Luigi in Super Mario
Bros. 3 (since I was the younger one) in perspective, doesn't it?

[^6]: i mean, other than cri agressively...

[^7]: hey, just like me all the time!

[^8]: to my dismay of course, though her first experience seeing skyrim
gameplay is one of my more favorite stories to tell.

[^9]: dat redoctane Afterburner tho. was also a big fan of donkeykong
junglebeat congos, which i also still own. :)

[^10]: which, uh, don't b/c they're dope.

[^11]: i'm sure i'll have a blogpost about how games are art one day. if not,
see me for related rant.
