What do you think of eSports or competitive video gaming? Are you a competitor
or a spectator? If so, which games? Is esports something that will reach the
level of an Olympic event and should it receive the same level of recognition
and support as other types of competitive activities?

I like eSports.

I am not a regular spectator, but I went to NA LCS in LA over the summer [^1].
Here's some cool pics of me with my *cool* UCLA friends from that day:

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/catvajiac/hoc_blog/master/img/c9.jpg)

Us with C9

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/catvajiac/hoc_blog/master/img/immortals.jpg)

Us with Immortals

We watched C9 vs Immortals (pictured with those two teams above) and TSM vs.
Team Liquid, who we didn't end up getting pictures with.

I haven't really followed eSports before going to NA LCS, though I had played
League, so I didn't really understand how things worked before actually going.
eSports are similar to regular sports in a lot of normal ways - there are
professional commentators, there's a stadium, each player has a camera on
their face the entire game (you can really get a full experience of their
emotions sometimes). It's actually super legit, which is something that can
surprise a lot of people. I'd heard of these tournaments before, even though I
didn't follow them, so not a lot of this ended up surprising me.

People train for eSports, and it becomes their lives. We talked about this in
class as well; there are houses dedicated to the players practicing and it's
their full time job. They become famous, people follow their stats, people move
around from team to team [^2]. One of my friends pictured above, Alec, turned
into the biggest fangirl ever when he saw Doublelift in person. As he walked
by, he did his best to say something witty to DL, who vaguely acknowledged him.
He got ridiculously excited by it, more excited than I'd seen him get for most
things. Alec, like many others, follows League pretty closely, and was acting
like he'd seen someone legitimately famous - because he did! The point here is
that these people, though the path they've taken is rather modern, are revered
just like any "regular" athlete would be.

This begs the question - are they the same as traditional sports athletes? Do
they deserve the same amount of attention? Personally, I think traditional
sports athletes get too much fame and fortune anyway - and I don't see why
professional League players shouldn't get the same benefits. They work as hard
as athletes do, just in a really different way. While they don't do something
physically taxing, they do something that does require a lot of skill, and is
entertainment for others, just like sports players do.

Realistically, the gaming niche is small enough that it's never going to reach
the level of recognition that an Olympic event or any other sporting event
does. People have always prioritized physical strength/beauty over
intelligence/skill [^3]. For example, athletes and actors in our culture are
valued way differently than researchers/other intellectual people. Apart from
the few famous CEOs like Bill Gates and Steve Jobs, or the occasional smart
physicist like Neil Degrasse Tyson, smart/hard-working people that don't do
something physical/mainstream just aren't famous. Also, you simply can't
compare the fame of a Hollywood actor with Neil Degrasse Tyson's or Bill Nye's;
it's just a totally different realm. Getting esports to have such recognition
akin to "regular" sports would require a cultural overhaul of our society,
which it's most certainly not interested in/ready for. However, if it were to
happen, I would have no qualms with it.

[^1]: if you're a normie ape who doesn't know what that is, talk to vector bill.
[^2]: hi there doublelift
[^3]: not to say that Olympic athletes don't have skill, but physical skill
  is always prioritized in our culture.
