Ah...the golden age. Back in the days when everybody walked uphill both ways to
school, we didn't have fancy, new-fangled things like phones, the internet, or
git, and things were overall just simpler...especially games. But even if
they're simple, it doesn't mean that they're any less interesting than today's
games...does it?

Well, in order for me to find out, I had to perform *extensive* research [^1].
What did I learn? Well, first off, old games are HARD. Like, pretty damn hard
[^2]. Especially because I didn't even know the controls for half the things I
tried. Maybe people don't play some of these games anymore just so they can
feel better about themselves [^3]. Anyway, here's some proof that I played
games so my professor doesn't fail me or whatever[^4]...

![](https://github.com/catvajiac/hoc_blog/blob/master/img/frogger.png?raw=1)

I played frogger. I wasn't super great at it, but I had a lot of fun. The speed
difference between those logs is killer, though [^5].

![](https://github.com/catvajiac/hoc_blog/blob/master/img/turtles.png?raw=1)

Here's me playing turtles. Believe it or not, when these things are chasing you
like crazy, it's hard to take a screenshot. I entirely blame pbui and this blog
for my low scores [^6].

![](https://github.com/catvajiac/hoc_blog/blob/master/img/the_mousing_cat.png?raw=1)

Finally, here's a cute screenshot from a game called "The Mousing Cat" which I
just felt like I had an obligation to play. I kinda liked this one, but not
nearly as much as frogger.

Anyway, now that my *ahem* proof of research is complete [^7], back to the
original point...are these games still important today? Or do they just suck
and should we leave them in the past, and tell hipsters to stop wearing their
flannels and to throw away their record players [^8]?

Many people today would not even look twice at an Atari game from the
80's...after all, the graphics are bad, the premise is usually simple and why
am I looking at this instead of playing Skyrim VR??? What's the big deal,
anyway? These games are old and outdated, let them die!!! RIGHT? ...right?

Well, apart from nostalgia, there's a few things that looking at gaming from
the golden age is good for, at least I happen to think so. I'm not saying you
have to play them all day, or even any of the days, but it's important to at
least know about them.

First off, one has to remember that these games were pioneers in a world that
was the wild wild west. If nobody had bothered to create any of these games,
then there would be no Dark Souls, no Overwatch, no Skyrim, no League. In the
same way that you're supposed to respect your elders, you also should respect
these games. Even if you think they're dumb (which they arent!!!), at least
appreciate them for that much, alright kiddo [^9]?

Second off, these games are still played today, in a sense. Don't believe me?
Well have you ever heard of Crossy Road? It's an app that came out a few years
ago, one of those things young whippersnappers played. And if you look at it,
it's exactly like frogger, just with slightly better graphics [^10]. If these
games aren't fun or useful anymore, then why are we still playing them? Sure,
to make them appeal to the general masses, frogger needed a facelift, but it's
still the same dang game. I never played Donkey Kong as a smol child [^11], but
I played a Tarzan game with a very similar feel, again, just reskinned. There's
something innately interesting about these games that makes them come back
again and again. The age of the smartphone has only brought these concepts
back...with these little devices needing to attract buyers' attention with
limited memory and computational resources [^12], older games have been able to
make a comeback.

Here's another thing about the golden age...have you seen commercials for early
game systems? They're very inclusive...not only is gaming portrayed more as a
social event than it is now [^13], but you see girls behind the console as well
as boys. Look at the gaming community today, and you see lots of toxicity
around women. Women and gaming is an entire topic that I'm sure we'll get to
later, so I'll save the ranting for then, but things seem less terrible for
women in the golden age.

Overall, old games aren't as fancy as the new, shiny games of today. Especially
with the rise of really crazy technology like VR, it can make these old games
seem rather uninteresting at first glance. But even if you don't like playing
them, at the very least, you should appreciate that they created the foundation
for all other games to build upon. And also, there's nothing wrong with a
healthy dose of nostalgia...

[^1]: look, I may not have taken hackers, but I still believe in the hands-on
imperative so don't judge me

[^2]: something something insert NP hard joke here

[^3]: quick tip...play Diablo III if you want to feel better about your gaming
ability. After II, that was such a disappointment...and I'm not even that good
a gamer. This is sad. Rant over for now.

[^4]: this class is hard, alright, I'm trying to stay afloat by playing loads
of games. It's already week 3, and it's a stressful time of year...

[^5]: No frogs were hurt in the playing of this game

[^6]: totally legitimate claim, alright? Anyone who disagrees is spewing
\#fakenews

[^7]: though, are we ever done researching? I might have to go back and run
some more experiments...

[^8]: tfw you realize you're wearing a flannel and listening to my record of
Dark Side of the Moon...

[^9]: before you scoff and run off to play black ops, just remember that it
wouldn't exist without these so be calm

[^10]: and also way easier..trust me I played a lot of crossy road a few years
back.

[^11]: shoutout to the people who still are smol children...not the worst way
to be

[^12]: well, at least more limited than your average gaming device

[^13]: not that I don't think gaming is social!!! But it's percieved as less so
today
