While a lot of people would say "normies REEEEEEEEEE" to casual gaming, I
personally don't think it's a bad thing. Mobile gaming has brought games,
albeit in a very different form, to the mainstream. Isn't that what gaming
should be about? Shouldn't we try to make this environment as inviting and
welcoming as possible, so more people can enjoy it?

Yes, this is change, and yes, these people don't game in the same way that your
typical gamer does, but I don't think it should be a change that angers the
gaming community. In the same way that there are different types of music that
people listen to in different moods, it's perfectly find for people to have
different types of games that they play in different moods, even if some of
those are more casual. Mobile gaming, as a whole, is a good thing, even if it's
a little different.

I don't think that mobile games make up the most artistic or interesting games
of the genre, in general, and I personally don't prefer them to most "normal"
games that I've played in the past few years, but I don't think that they
should be discriminated on. Some people like mobile games, and there's nothing
wrong with that. Mostly...but we'll get into that later.

My first experience with mobile games, if I remember correctly, was Temple Run.
I found it extremely exciting and addictive; I spent a ridiculous amount of
time running from monkeys and trying to not die. It's one of the (mobile) games
I spent the most amount of time playing. Since then, my usual paradigm when I
find a new mobile game is to play it intentely for a few weeks, then give it up
entirely as soon as I get bored. The issue with the majority of mobile games,
for me, is that they aren't all that interesting/have a storyline. If you
remember from my previous blogs, one of the things that hooks me the most with
games is a good plot. If you don't have that, I get bored rather quickly, so I
tend to not play most mobile games for very long.
The only one I keep consistently installed is Flow Free, which funnily enough,
doesn't have a plot at all. However, it's a simple and fun puzzle game, and I
don't play it 99% of the time since I've already done all the levels (I've
played since high school, so it's actually not that big of a deal).

However, many mobile games are of the same form, containing 255
micro-transactions. I personally hate this model; either make me pay for the
game or make it free and REALLY FREE [^1].

Apart from my small annoyances with pay-to-play mobile games, I think there's a
bigger issue here; these games feed on getting people addicted enough to want
to pay money to continue playing. Their business model exploits the addictive
tendencies in people. Some mobile games market their games specifically to be
addictive and get a select few to pay hundreds of dollars, which I personally
think is morally corrupt.

TLDR; mobile gaming is fine, though not exactly my thing all that much, except
for when they exploit people.

[^1]: don't make me wait for silly amounts of time because i've depleted some stupid
energy resource. this is stupid. this makes your game more stupid. stahp.

[^2]: i don't really feel like footnotes today. i'm not in the mood. don't hate
  me or think i'm a pos for this. kthxbai
